{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12560\viewh16600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 EALIB: STATUS\
\

\b0 This document describes the current status of EALib (and its associated libraries), lists known issues, and contains a list of upcoming / desirable features.\

\b \
========\
Current status:
\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\
\
========\
Known issues:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Checkpointing meta-populations works, but the state of serialized populations is stale.  Specifically, we aren't saving the state of a population as it was at the beginning of a group competition period, but rather at the 
\i end
\i0  of a group competition.  This means that anything that happened in the EA cannot be recreated.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Make sure population size can't exceed environment size.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Why does analysis of dig evo runs require 5x updates?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\

\b ========\
Upcoming features / changes:
\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Remove last vestiges of interface.h (ptr, ind functions).\
{\listtext	\'95	}Add concept checking\
{\listtext	\'95	}Wrapper for evolutionary_algorithm that enables it to be treated like an individual in meta_population treatments.  Will this let us remove meta_population?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Transparent MPI support for meta-populations.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Task tracking at individual and subpopulation levels.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}How?  Probably through meta-data aggregation.  Need to convert phenotype information (tasks performed, resources accumulated) over to use meta-data (step 1).  Then, write a method to aggregate certain information across individuals (step 2; merge with below?).  Finally, do the same at the meta-population level.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Boost Accumulator / Avida-ish datafile model.  It would be nice to be able to define ad hoc datafiles.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}E.g.:
\f1  add_datafile<current_update, mean_fitness, max_fitness>("fitness.dat", ea);  
\f0 The key to this is that there be some magic behind the scenes that prevents multiple linear scans through the population.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Standardize the genome representation into a circular vector of integers, and provide a way to easily define genes within that genome.  This effectively turns the whole EA into a genetic algorithm, which is fine.  Yes, we should not eliminate the possibility of other representations, but really, this is all we need.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Enable an EA to be configured / controlled via python.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Develop a Boost::Parameter interface to ea::evolutionary_algorithm (and the other EAs: digital_evolution, novelty_search\'85).\
{\listtext	\'95	}Metapopulation datafile wrapper that enables transparent use of subpopulation-specific data files.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Consider a gene-parsing framework?\
}